# Unifying Theories are Fake

I have a bad habit.

After graduating from college in May of last year, I've had a motif that my life has so far been defined by periods of 4 years. These 4 year periods are defined by a few underlying goals that I was chasing after. The first four were high school, the next four were college. The high school period was defined by dedicating my hours to swim, science fairs, and just trying to figure out what I think I want to do as an adult. The college period wasn’t so different: trying to cast a wide net in the major I had picked and focus on a couple interesting things, meet cool people, and do new things. They were broad and open-ended, letting me take random walks and explore things. I think I’ve gotten very lucky and fallen upwards in many ways.

In hindsight, I feel like one of the core reasons I had these few underlying goals was to help me find directions and answers. Well, directions to what and answers for what questions? I guess I’ve always been looking for something to chew away on at the back of my mind. Something interesting, something that I wanna devote my waking hours to, something that will honestly consume slightly too much of my life and headspace. Something that drives me. Then, there’s the question of what questions am I trying to answer? I guess I always thought that by some point of my life, I would have some basic unifying theory of life. One that explain why things happen in a certain way, one that can tell me what the generally right or wrong thing to do is, one that can guide me in a way that after I figure out the answer to something I’ve been thinking about for a long time, I can say “that answer aligns with what I generally expected”. The combination of these two things lead me to well, make goals that take up my time and make me do things and find answers.

But now, after the last two four year periods, I found it difficult to form new goals that I wanted to pursue. There were so many things I wanted to do, but most of them felt very ingenuine for reasons I could not place a finger on. I would often read something interesting hoping it would have a lasting impact on me, only to have no recollection of it at all. I would find things and save them to come back to, only to delete the link when I come back to clean it up one day. I hope the same doesn’t happen to this post. Consequently, I didn’t really know what goals to _actually_ do and how to find the answer to what is my unifying theory of life.

In my head, I keep trying to dissect why I felt this way. I need to figure out why it felt like the remainder of 2024 after college felt like things were out of focus. Slowly, my hindsight and introspection make me think it almost felt like things are coming to a slow freeze. I knew exactly what my life was going to look like for the next 24, 48, sometimes 72+ hours. With this preset notion of my life for some fixed amount of time, I could almost go into autopilot. 

## So what now?
